# FOCS Homework 11, for Day 12

You may edit your answers into this file, or add a separate file in the same directory.

If you add a separate file, please include the following at the top:

```
Student Name: Frankly Olin [change to your name]
Check one:
[ ] I completed this assignment without assistance or external resources.
[ ] I completed this assignment with assistance from ___
   and/or using these external resources: ___
```

## I. Formal Proofs

Use the rules of inference from class (reprinted below) to construct formal, numbered proofs of the following:

### 1.

Assuming _p -> q_ and _p -> r_, prove _p -> (q AND r)_

1. p            assumed
2. p -> q       assumed
3. p -> r       assumed
4. q            MP, 1 2
5. r            MP, 1 3
6. q ^ r        conjunction, 4 5
7. p -> q ^ r   1, 6

### 2.

Assuming _p -> (q OR r)_ and _p -> (q OR NOT r)_, prove _p -> q_

1. p -> q V r       assumed
2. p -> q V ~r      assumed
3. p                assumed
4. q v ~r           MP, 2 3
5. q v r            MP, 1 3
6. (q v r) ^ (q v ~r)  Conjunction, 4 5
7. q v (r ^ ~r)     Distributive, 6
8. q v (
)





## II. Truth tables

Use a truth table to show the equivalence of the assumptions and conclusion from problem 1, above:  Assuming _p -> q_ and _p -> r_, prove _p -> (q AND r)_

[Style note:  what is the canonical order of the rows in a truth table for three propositions?]











## III. Tautology, satisfiable, contradiction

Which of the following are tautologies?  Satisfiable?  Unsatisfiable (contradictions)?

### 1. _(p AND q AND r) -> (p OR q)_



### 2. _((p -> q) AND (q -> r)) -> (p -> r)_



### 3. _(p -> q) -> p_



### 4. _(p OR q OR r) AND ((NOT p) OR (NOT q) OR (NOT r)) AND (p OR (NOT q)) AND (q OR (NOT r)) OR (r OR (not p))_



### 5. [** challenge/optional] _(p <=> (q OR r)) -> ((NOT q) -> (p AND r))_



## IV. CNF

Transform the following formula into conjunctive normal form.  Show your steps.

_p OR (q AND NOT (r AND (s -> t)))_






## V. Short certificate

Demonstrate that the formula in problem IV is satisfiable.  Explain whether you used a  "short certificate" or exhaustive enumeration to make this determination.







[several problems adapted from Ullman FOCS ch12]
